Initial mailer component docs (#11626)
symfony/symfony-docs: components/mailer.rst

.. include:: /components/require_autoload.rst.inc

Introduction
------------

> 

Author: Hey @weaverryan , @wouterj  here we need some introduction. Do you guys have some good text for here ?

This is what I have been thinking. 

`Symfony mailer is an experimental component introduced in 4.3. This component will eventually replace swiftmailer.`

Reviewer: what about : This component aims to replace swiftmailer?

Usage
-----

The Mailer component has two main classes: a ``Transport`` and the ``Mailer`` itself::

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport\Smtp\SmtpTransport;

    $transport = new SmtpTransport('localhost');
    $mailer = new Mailer($transport);
    $mailer->send($email);

Refer :doc:`Mime component </components/mime>` how to create `$email` object.

Transport
---------

By default, the only transport available in the mailer component is Smtp.

Below is the list of other popular providers with built in support.

> - Amazon SES  : symfony/amazon-mailer

Reviewer 2: I'm not so sure about the space before `:` and I think the package name is better off when we show it as an inline text block (by surrounding it with double backticks: ```- Amazon SES: ``symfony/amazon-mailer`` ```)

- Google Gmail : symfony/google-mailer
- Mandrill : symfony/mailchimp-mailer
- Mailgun : symfony/mailgun-mailer
- Postmark : symfony/postmark-mailer
- Sendgrid : symfony/sendgrid-mailer

For example to use google's gmail as a transport you need to install symfony/google-mailer.

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/google-mailer

.. code-block:: php

>     use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Bridge\Google\Smtp\GmailTransport;

Reviewer 2: Please add an empty line between `.. code-block:: php` and the actual code.

A very small reStructured Text tip (as it'll help you understand what we suggest). Code blocks start with `.. code-block:: LANGUAGE` followed by an empty line. Or if it's PHP and the previous sentence ended with a colon (like "See this example:"), you can omit the `.. code-block:: php` line and replace it with a double colon:

```diff
- See this example:
- 
- .. code-block:: php  
+ See this example::
  
      echo 'Hello'
```

Author: Thank you for clearing it.

    $transport = new GmailTransport('user', 'pass');
    $mailer = new Mailer($transport);
    $mailer->send($email);

Use a Dsn
---------

The mailer component provides a convenient way to create transport object from dsn string::

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport;

    $transport = Transport::fromDsn($dsn);

Where ``$dns`` as one of the form below.

> - smtp://user:pass@gmail

Reviewer 2: I would suggest putting these into inline code blocks as well: ```- ``smtp::/user:pass@gmail`` ```

- smtp://key@sendgrid
- smtp://null
- smtp://user:pass@mailgun
- http://key:domain@mailgun
- api://id@postmark

This provides a unified behaviour across all providers.
Easily switch from SMTP in dev to a "real" provider in production with same API.

Failover transport
------------------

You can create failover transport with the help of `||` operator::

    $dsn = 'api://id@postmark || smtp://key@sendgrid';

So if the first transport fails, the mailer will attempt to send through the second transport.

Round Robin
-----------

If you want to send emails by using multiple transports in a round-robin fashion, you can use the
``&&`` operator between the transports::

    $dsn = 'api://id@postmark && smtp://key@sendgrid'

Async
-----

> If you want to use the async functionality you need to install the ``messenger`` component.

Reviewer 2: Let's make this a link to the messenger component:

```suggestion
If you want to use the async functionality you need to install the :doc:`Messenger component </components/messenger>`.
```

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/messenger

Then, instantiate and pass a ``MessageBus`` as a second argument to ``Mailer``::

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 2: So following my small explanation, you can remove this line (as the previous line ended with a double colon)

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Messenger\MessageHandler;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Messenger\SendEmailMessage;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\SmtpEnvelope;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Handler\HandlersLocator;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\MessageBus;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Middleware\HandleMessageMiddleware;
    use Symfony\Component\Mime\Address;
    

>     // .. $dsn = 'smtp://null';

Reviewer 2: I would suggest:

```suggestion
    $dsn = ...;
```

It'll show that this variable needs to be defined and I'm a bit worried that people blindly copy this example and do not understand why they never get emails (because of the Null DSN provided)

.. include:: /components/require_autoload.rst.inc

Introduction
------------

Usage
-----

The Mailer component has two main classes: a ``Transport`` and the ``Mailer`` itself::

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport\Smtp\SmtpTransport;

    $transport = new SmtpTransport('localhost');
    $mailer = new Mailer($transport);
    $mailer->send($email);

> Refer :doc:`Mime component </components/mime>` how to create `$email` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `$email` object is created via the :doc:`Mime component </components/mime>`.
```

Author: If everyone needs that, I will make the change.

Reviewer 3: Let's merge this suggestion

Transport
---------

By default, the only transport available in the mailer component is Smtp.

Below is the list of other popular providers with built in support.

- Amazon SES: ``symfony/amazon-mailer``
- Google Gmail: ``symfony/google-mailer``
- Mandrill: ``symfony/mailchimp-mailer``
- Mailgun: ``symfony/mailgun-mailer``
- Postmark: ``symfony/postmark-mailer``
- Sendgrid: ``symfony/sendgrid-mailer``

> For example to use google's gmail as a transport you need to install symfony/google-mailer.

Reviewer: what about uppercase G for google and gmail ?

Author: I can, if that really matters :-)  .

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/google-mailer

.. code-block:: php

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Bridge\Google\Smtp\GmailTransport;

    $transport = new GmailTransport('user', 'pass');
    $mailer = new Mailer($transport);
    $mailer->send($email);

Use a Dsn
---------

The mailer component provides a convenient way to create transport object from dsn string::

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport;

    $transport = Transport::fromDsn($dsn);

> Where ``$dns`` as one of the form below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where ``$dsn`` as one of the form below.
```

;)

Author: cool. I will push changes when I get some time.

- ``smtp://user:pass@gmail``
- ``smtp://key@sendgrid``
- ``smtp://null``
- ``smtp://user:pass@mailgun``
- ``http://key:domain@mailgun``
- ``api://id@postmark``

This provides a unified behaviour across all providers.

> Easily switch from SMTP in dev to a "real" provider in production with same API.

Reviewer: -dev+development if you write production and not prod :)

Author: sure.

Failover transport
------------------

You can create failover transport with the help of `||` operator::

    $dsn = 'api://id@postmark || smtp://key@sendgrid';

So if the first transport fails, the mailer will attempt to send through the second transport.

Round Robin
-----------

If you want to send emails by using multiple transports in a round-robin fashion, you can use the

> ``&&`` operator between the transports::

Reviewer: no `the`before `transports`, no?

Author: not sure. I am not a native English speaker. So I don't know :( .

Reviewer: Me neither
Bu reading seems weird
Just asking anyway :)

.. include:: /components/require_autoload.rst.inc

Introduction
------------

Usage
-----

> 

Reviewer 3: We need some text above this that ends with a `::` - like:

```rst
The Mailer component has two main classes: a "transport" and the ``Mailer`` itself::
```

Author: I am not sure if you made a typo for "transport" . Or you were looking for ``Transport`` . As the mailer uses 2 single quotes, I have used it for Transport also.

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport\Smtp\SmtpTransport;

    $transport = new SmtpTransport('localhost');
    $mailer = new Mailer($transport);
    $mailer->send($email);

Refer :doc:`Mime component </components/mime>` how to create `$email` object.

> 

Reviewer 3: Extra line here

Transport
---------

By default, the only transport available in the mailer component is Smtp.
Below is the list of other popular providers with built in support.

> - Amazon SES  : symfony/amazon-mailer

Reviewer 3: Add a line break between the paragraph and the start of the list

- Google Gmail : symfony/google-mailer
- Mandrill : symfony/mailchimp-mailer
- Mailgun : symfony/mailgun-mailer
- Postmark : symfony/postmark-mailer
- Sendgrid : symfony/sendgrid-mailer

For example to use google's gmail as a transport you need to install symfony/google-mailer.

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/google-mailer

> .. include:: /components/require_autoload.rst.inc

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need/want this

>     use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Bridge\Google\Smtp\GmailTransport;

Reviewer 3: Above this, add a:

```rst
.. code-block:: php
```

Author: cool. Didn't added for looking at mime, there was none. Will add.

    $transport = new GmailTransport('user', 'pass');
    $transport->send($email);

Use a Dsn
---------

> The mailer component provides a convenient way to create transport object from dsn string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The mailer component provides a convenient way to create transport object from dsn string::
```

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport;

    $transport = Transport::fromDsn($dsn);

> Where `$dns` as one of the form below.

Reviewer 3: New line break after this

- smtp://user:pass@gmail
- smtp://key@sendgrid
- smtp://null
- smtp://user:pass@mailgun
- http://key:domain@mailgun
- api://id@postmark

This provides a unified behaviour across all providers.
Easily switch from SMTP in dev to a "real" provider in production with same API.

Failover transport
------------------

> You can create failover transport with the help of `||` operator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can create failover transport with the help of `||` operator::
```

> Eg : 

Reviewer 3: Remove this

    $dsn = 'api://id@postmark || smtp://key@sendgrid';

> So if it fails at one transport, the mailer will attempt to send through the other transport.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So if the first transport fails, the mailer will attempt to send through the second transport.
```

Author: Did you missed the `::` . I am not very familiar with rst, so not sure about the purpose.

> RoundRobin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Round Robin
```

----------

> If you want to send mails via multiple transports, you can use the `&&` operator between the transports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to send emails by using multiple transports in a round-robin fashion, you can use the
``&&`` operator between the transports.
```

> Eg :

Reviewer 3: remove this

Author: You mean the Eg: , right ?

    
    $dsn = 'api://id@postmark && smtp://key@sendgrid'

Async
-----

> If you want to use the async functionality you need to install `messenger` component.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to use the async functionality you need to install the ``messenger`` component.
```

Reviewer 4: Even better, link to the docs of the component via `:doc:.....`

By default, `$bus` is null and if it is not configured, mailer is always using sync functionality.

> And async when `$bus` is configured for EnvelopedMessage.

Reviewer 3: Instead of these, how about:

```rst
Then, instantiate and pass a ``MessageBus`` as a second argument to ``Mailer``::
```

Author: Looks good.

.. code-block:: terminal

>     $ composer require symfony/messenger

Reviewer 3: I'd move this up right after the first sentence of this section.

> .. include:: /components/require_autoload.rst.inc

Reviewer 3: Not needed - we basically show this once on top, then never again

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Messenger\MessageHandler;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Messenger\SendEmailMessage;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\SmtpEnvelope;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Handler\HandlersLocator;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\MessageBus;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Middleware\HandleMessageMiddleware;
    use Symfony\Component\Mime\Address;
    
    // .. $dsn = 'smtp://null';
    $transport = Transport::fromDsn($dsn);
    $handler = new MessageHandler($transport);

    $bus = new MessageBus([
        new HandleMessageMiddleware(new HandlersLocator([

>             SendEmailMessage::class => ['message_hander' => $handler],

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            SendEmailMessage::class => [$handler],
```

.. include:: /components/require_autoload.rst.inc

Introduction
------------

Symfony mailer is an experimental component introduced in 4.3 which
will eventually replace swiftmailer.

Usage
-----

The Mailer component has two main classes: a ``Transport`` and the ``Mailer`` itself::

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport\Smtp\SmtpTransport;

    $transport = new SmtpTransport('localhost');
    $mailer = new Mailer($transport);
    $mailer->send($email);

Refer :doc:`Mime component </components/mime>` how to create `$email` object.

Transport
---------

> By default, the only transport available in the mailer component is Smtp.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The only transport that comes pre-installed with mailer is Smtp.
```

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/messenger

Then, instantiate and pass a ``MessageBus`` as a second argument to ``Mailer``::

    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Mailer;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Messenger\MessageHandler;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Messenger\SendEmailMessage;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\SmtpEnvelope;
    use Symfony\Component\Mailer\Transport;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Handler\HandlersLocator;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\MessageBus;
    use Symfony\Component\Messenger\Middleware\HandleMessageMiddleware;
    use Symfony\Component\Mime\Address;

    $dsn = 'change-dsn-accordingly';

    $transport = Transport::fromDsn($dsn);
    $handler = new MessageHandler($transport);

    $bus = new MessageBus([
        new HandleMessageMiddleware(new HandlersLocator([
            SendEmailMessage::class => [$handler],
        ])),
    ]);

    $mailer = new Mailer($transport, $bus);

    $mailer->send($email, new SmtpEnvelope(
        new Address('sender@example.com'),
        [
            new Address('recepient@example.com'),
        ]

>     ));

Reviewer 3: Let's add a final section.

```rst
Learn More
-----------

To learn more about how to use the mailer component, refer to the :doc:`Symfony Framework Mailer documentation </mailer>`.
```
